# COAdesigns
This repository is a collection of Component Order of Addition (COA) designs for 4 to 227 items.  COAs are a sample of orderings of items, structured for accurate estimation of the Shapley Value of any valuation function on combinations of items.

There is one CSV file for each size of design, collected into several zip files.  If you are an R user, you do not need these.  Instead you can use R package ShapCOA, github.com/DWLyon17/ShapCOA, to generate COAs of any size "on the fly." 

For designs of 4 to 100, there is one separate CSV for each and every size.  For sizes of 101 to 227, there is a CSV file only for sizes that are primes or powers of primes.  For other sizes, use the next larger COA and drop all occurrences of extra items.  For example, for 146 items, use the COA for 149 and drop items 147, 148 and 149.  (For sizes of 100 or less, these drops have been done for you to yield one COA for every size from 4 to 100).  This is done to save space since the large designs are so large.  Specific sizes provided for COAs are (in one zip file for each line below):
   4 to 50, inclusive
   51 to 80, inclusive  
   81 to 100, inclusive  
   101 103 107 109 113 121 125 127 128 131 137 139  
   149 151 157 163 167  
   169 173 179  
   181 191 193  
   197 199  
   211  
   223  
   227

To obtain multiple COAs of a given size, download the one of the right size and then randomly permute all but the last two columns of it.  In other words, do NOT change the first two columns.  The results of such random permutations are themselves COAs, and ones in which no orderings overlap with the orderings in any other COA generated by such permutations.  For large COAs of non-prime/power sizes, it is preferable to permute first, before dropping items.

For details on COAs and how they are generated, see 
Jian-Feng Yang, Fasheng Sun and Hongquan Xu (2021), “A Component-Position Model, Analysis and Design for Order-of-Addition Experiments,”, Technometrics, volume 63, issue 2 (May 2021), pp. 212-24.

For details on their use to obtain accurate approximations of Shapley Values, see 
Liuqing Yang, Yongdao Zhou, Haoda Fu, Min-Qian Liu and Wei Zheng (2024), “Fast Approximation of the Shapley Values Based on Order-of-Addition Experimental Designs,” Journal of the American Statistical Association, volume 119, issue 547 (September 2024), pp. 2294-2304

For slides from the 2026 Sawtooth Research Conference presentation "Shapley Values for Large Problems," see github.com/DWLyon17/COAslides2026. The Proceedings paper will be added there in the future.

Further slides about Shapley Values in marketing research (but not involving COAs) from the 2018 Sawtooth Software Conference presentation "Shapley Values: Easy, Useful and Intuitive," along with the Proceedings paper, are at github.com/DWLyon17/ShapleySlides2018.
